ANOSIYA WAGLE
                                               "EFFECTS OF COMPUTER IN PRESENT ERA "
           In the present era , a man made machine namely computer is palaying a vital role in all round development of a society. The 21st
 century is also considered as the era of computers or the century of computers . The world has revolutionized as never before. It has 
turned into digital form . Every field of development requires computer. The libraries has turned into e-library and ther is online 
education system. This is the impact that this machine has brought in the century. Computers are used in all of the fields
as it makes the work more easier to perform . Every banks uses the computer to keep the record of the files and debit and credit.
                                Computer can perform a work in fractions of a second. They have high speed which has also become one
of the main reason of its popularity and its wide use.  person sitting in a small room can explore the world through the use of internet.
The person who is in the next corner or the continent can communicate and express their thoughts and feelings with each other . This is 
also one of the main reasons why this machine is world wide essential . It is also acting as a teacher which teaches every subject matters
to the children . Perhaps , we can say that it is more effective than the schools as there are ideas and knowledge of many experts whereas
there is only a particular teacher in a school .Children can learn in a child-friendly environment with moving graphics and videos which is more
understanable by them as 'pictures speak more louder than the words actually do'.
                              Besides the lot of advantages, computer also have a lot of disadvantages . All of us has heard about the cyber crimes
which are done using the computers . Some people misuses the computers and internet which also make many of the people to sucide .
Most of the cuber crimes are done using the social networking sites . To avoid these crimes many laws are also made namely cyber laws.
In conclusion,these powerful machines are made for communication and to make the peoples life more comfortable and easier. So lets
use them properly and lets enjoy the wonderful facilities provided by the computers . It is our one of the most important duties to eradicate the cyber
crime .