Kanchan Pokharel
effects
As we know that the computer is a very use ful machine in our daily life it has got many good as well as bad effect on the human life . being a versatile machine computer can be used every where in the good as well as bad feilds . the computer has comptely changed our life style now we cannot think a single day with out the use of computer. It is as a multitasking machine.As the growing demands of the computer we must be known about it bad and good effects. 
there are various good effects of computer such as the computer is a very suitable device for calculation,it is also the best way for the entertainment of a person we can play music songs , watch movies and play various computer games throught the computer . Not only in basic task it has also been used in complex tasks such as launching rockets,sicentific reactions etc and By the use of internet we can browse the every part of the world  just in few seconds. the internet on computer is also called as thew ocean of the knowladges .As the computer has various advantages if we can use it properly we can get the sucess in our life.
As good effects there are various bad effects of computer among them the worst of all is Hacking . hacking is the negative use of computer done in order to steal damage the personal documents . Now a days there are many people who are not aware of the security and the privacy of their computer  thus there are many complains of the IDs been stolen the WIFI of the various people been hacked thus we also must be careful about our personal security and privacy. Not only hacking there are many others disadvantages to the people are spreading some secrets documents pictures and others from and spreading in social media, threb are many dangerous virus which the person make to damge other computer etc.
In todays 21st century the computer can be used for good as well as bad purposes so we need have the safe surfing and we should be aware of our security and usae the computer for good purpose and never rty to damage others computers 
                                                           Have a safe us of computer
