Utshah Neupane

                                               Effects of computer

          A computer is an electronic machine which has become a part of our daily life in today's modern world. 
In this 21st century, we are unable to imagine about such a comfortable, reliable, easier and meaningful life 
in the absence of this technology. We human beings are completely dependent upon the applications of
 the computer system to achieve the goals of our life.
             Because of the presence of this technology in our society, we are able enough to do different 
tasks such as to draw pictures, prepare documents, save our important files for further use, keep
 the records, get entertained by watching movies and listening music. Additionally, because of the 
access of the internet in our computers, we are able to gain knowledge regarding the topic our interest,
view the news internationally as well as chat with our nearest and the dearest ones no matter
 in whichever corner of the world they are. It provides us the platform to get online certificates and 
share our meaningful information with friends.
                       Every individual in a society prefers the computer to perform the tasks ranging from preparing 
documents to exchanging emails. Nowadays there is a trend of using modern, advanced and expensive
computers so as to make the task more reliable. Because of this trend, different youngsters have started
demanding and argueing with their parents for such expensive computers which are beyond the 
capacity of their. This adversely affects the individual as well as the society as conflict starts to begin
in family.
           Today's youngsters have also started to use this technology illegally to harm others. They are
nowadays using computers for hacking the important data within the computers of their friends to take
revenge from them as well as they use it to make wrong videos so as to upload it in the internet and
gain money. Because of this technology people are also becoming anti-social which is bad for their 
personality development.
            A computer is both advantageous and disadvantageous for us. So to make our life 
prosperous and and to be able to achieve something in our future, we must use this techno;ogy
in such a way that it doesn't harm us as well as our society and world.           
